Hi, I'm Corey Haynes. This is a recorded
kata cast with commentary of the Roman
numerals kotta. The task here is to
write a routine which will convert
Arabic numbers to Roman numerals. Pretty
straightforward. The real benefit of
these kata is not when you solve the
problem, but instead in the way you
solve the problem. By practicing the
solution many times, you can start to
analyze the more subtle parts of your
practice, looking at not just how you do
it, but the why behind each step as
well. In this screencast, I'll be
walking you through my solution,
stopping regularly to discuss the small
decisions that I made along the way. It
very well could seem like nitpicking at
each step, and in a way, it is. But by
practicing the very small thoughts
behind these decisions in a constrained
environment such as this one, we won't
have to think about them as much when we
are coding for our production work.
Enjoy.
My first example is the degenerate case.
This corresponds in a way to the nothing
to nil transformation from the
transformation priority premise. Right
now I don't have anything. By focusing
on the nothing case, I can get my
initial structure set up. So I can set
up how to test what the method name is,
what the parameter
and in TDD we focus on a very tight
feedback loop. So we like to run our
test as often as possible. I know I'm
going to fail here, but I still want to
run the test and I get what I expect,
which is undefined method convert.
In getting this to pass, notice I don't
bother with another file. When working
on a small routine like this, I'd prefer
to have everything as close together as
possible. Also, if this was for a
production system, I'd probably be
deferring the decision about where to
put it. I do make a slightly larger leap
here and that I include the parameter
when I make the method. If I was taking
absolutely baby steps, I'd just focus on
making that undefined method message
change and then let a test message give
me that the parameter isn't there. I'm
confident in this one though. Now I run
my tests again after building the method
because I want to see an actual test
failure. That is an expectation failure.
So here we have an expected empty
string.nil. That's more of what the test
is saying.
Now following the transformation
priority premise, nil to constant is a
simple choice for getting this test to
pass. So let's return a blank string
constant. and we're passing.
So my second example is the one that
brings variation to my system after
setting up the structure with a
degenerate case. According to the
transformation priority premise or TPP,
a constant is a very simple test to move
to. We can move to our first real
rulebased case which is one. Of course,
this is going to fail since all we have
built so far is the simple blank string.
As we move forward getting subsequent
examples to pass, we want to make sure
not to have previous examples start
failing. If they do, then we are
probably taking either too large of
steps or we aren't choosing the correct
sequence of tests. A very simple
transformation is the if clause or guard
clause. I use this a lot as a technique
to sort of wall off the previous code
and give myself a fresh base to work
from.
Also notice that the first failure we
got was a bad value. We expected an I,
but we got the empty string. While the
failure after the guard clause takes us
back to nil. Expected I got nil. Now nil
to constant is a wonderfully simple
transformation according to TPP. We can
then enact that transformation to get
this example passing.
Tada.
Now, up till now, it has been pretty
straightforward. Here is the first
decision. What's the next test? A lot of
implementations that I see use two as
the next test. However, if we think
about complexity, two is actually quite
complex. It could almost be considered a
vector or array of ones.
The TPP talks about this. So I'm going
to choose an example that might be
considered simply a more complex
constant five.
Another interesting thing here is the
fact that I can create this test by a
simple copy and search and replace.
This accentuates the fact that the test
for five is a constant just like one.
This will influence the next step we
see.
So running the test we see we expected V
but we got I. This is similar to when we
were getting the one case passing. I
want to reset my test so that I can move
from nil instead of from the constant
related to the previous example. And of
course
guard clause to the rescue.
Now we are back to an expectation
failure around nil. So we can use the
nil to constant transformation to get
this passing.
Tada.
Now the fact that I could do a straight
copy of one to five and I to v shows me
that there is some duplication here. The
duplication isn't really in the test
case as much as the knowledge about
testing the rules. So when talking about
design, I fall back to the four rules of
simple design. In this case, we can see
duplication around how to test. So I'm
going to eliminate that duplication
right away. This allows us to extract
out the what we are testing from the how
we are testing it. Really drawing our
attention to the rules of the algorithm
rather than having to look through
unnecessary noise to see them.
Whenever we do a refactoring, it's worth
running our test to make sure that we're
still passing. Then I can delete the old
ones.
It's worth noting that I don't wrap the
zero case into this. For me, the zero is
a case that stands outside of the
standard rules. It is an exceptional
situation, and I want to highlight it
separately.
Now it is time to move up the complexity
a bit. We've seen a simple constant, a
slightly more complex constant.
Now let's move to something much more
complicated, the two.
Two can be thought of as a vector or
array of ones. According to the TPP,
this is much more complex than a simple
constant or even a scaler. We're going
to get this passing with our usual
technique of guard clause plus returning
a constant. Then we'll move into the
refactoring stage which is where the
real excitement of this algorithm comes
into play.
Now there's a bit of subtle duplication
here and this is going to lead us to the
actual algorithm that does the
conversion. The II is actually made of
two parts just like two is.
The second I can be considered the same
as converting the one.
The first I is really there because we
are more than one that is two and the
one is actually what is left when we
remove the first part of the two. It's a
bit complicated to say, but I hope you
can see.
Now, we're going to use this technique a
couple times through this refactoring,
which is adding code and making the
algorithm slightly more or in this case
much more complex.
This is a temporary situation in order
to drive out some explicit duplication
that we can eliminate. This change has
highlighted a pretty clear piece of
duplication. Namely, on line three, the
hard-coded return I of in Arabic equals
1 contains the same knowledge as what we
just wrote on line five. Since 1 minus 1
is zero, and the recursive call will
yield an empty string. So, shifting the
code the way we did allows us to delete
line three.
I'd like to take a moment to point out
that at each small incremental change,
we are rerunning our tests and verifying
they are still green. This has a couple
benefits. One, we can see that we truly
aren't changing any behavior. And two,
if we make a mistake, we can just undo
our last change. When refactoring, we
should be keeping our test green at each
incremental step.
The I and the one on line four are
really effectively representations of
the same thing. Perhaps we could think
them of them as conversion factors.
Makes sense to group them into a single
entity. There
here we fall back on a technique we've
seen before introducing duplication in
order to coax the algorithm towards a
simpler form. Line four where we are
specifying the conversion factor is the
same idea as line three just in a
different format. Line three is saying
that five goes to V and line four says
that one goes to I. The ordering is
important of course which is why the
guard clause for five comes first.
We can highlight this duplication of
style of looking up conversion factor,
if you will, by adding code to our new
conversion factor technique on line
four. We'll have to be careful to put
the five in the right place and grab it
when appropriate. That's why we use the
less than or equals because we want to
find the five when we have five, but the
one when we have two or one.
Just as a side note, I'm using an
underscore in my predicate to find the
conversion factors to accentuate the
fact that the lookup isn't dependent on
the second part of the array, that is
the Roman equivalent.
Now, seeing this pass, we can eliminate
the duplication we just added by
deleting line three.
Now, we have a working algorithm, but
our design isn't done. Applying the four
rules of simple design, I'm going to
call a huge violation here of revealing
intention. It is a very compact method
and I can see that it is looking up in
the array. However, this method is
crossing abstraction layers. One of the
guiding principles I use when reviewing
my code for dunnness is whether the
methods really stay at a consistent
level of abstraction. This one doesn't.
It is responsible for doing the
conversion, but it also drops down into
actually looking up what the conversion
factors are. So, let's do a simple
extract method to give ourselves a nice
named abstraction for what we're doing.
This new method is focused on looking up
the conversion factors. That's pretty
nice. But we have this ugly naked array
that I'd like to give a name to. I'd
like to separate out the responsibility
of looking up the conversion factors
from the task of creating the factors
themselves. Let's extract this into a
constant.
At this point, we have our algorithm. We
don't have the program complete.
We're still missing some rules, but the
TDD, the design aspect is fairly
complete. Instead, now I'm going to
focus on writing verification tests to
drive out the missing requirements,
namely the rest of the conversion
factors.
I like to keep my tests in numerical
order. So, I'm going to move that two
up.
Now, let's move to the next conversion
that is part of the rules four. We can
put it in our example list. Don't forget
to see the test fail.
and then easily add it up into our
conversion factor list. Now,
once passing, I'm going to move it up
into its numerical place.
In some implementations that I've seen,
there's a lot of effort put in to
calculating the four, the IV, and thus
the 9, the 40, the 90 as offsets.
However, I think that adds complexity to
the algorithm and also perhaps more
importantly hides an important aspect of
the Roman numeral counting system. By
keeping the four, the 9, the 40 offsets
in our conversion chart, we provide a
very clear documentation of how Roman
numerals look.
Now since we are moving now to
verification oriented tests, I want to
make sure that the important parts the
conversion list and the example list are
readily accessible. Adding more
conversions is going to drop the example
list down the page, forcing me to scroll
back and forth. So I'm going to do a
quick split window so I can easily pop
back and forth between the two lists and
keep them in sight.
So the first verification test before I
move into just implementing the straight
conversions is a slightly more complex
vector than two. In this case, I'm using
a six. I want to make sure that the
recursion and the lookup work well
together. When I'm converting two
different types of numbers, the six will
be both an I and a V. I expect this to
pass right out of the gate, and it does.
The rest of the kotta is just jumping
back and forth adding tests for each of
the individual conversion factors from
10 up to a thousand. Let's speed this up
a little bit since it isn't the most
exciting and there isn't a lot to say
about it.
And also it makes it look like I type
really fast.
As we come to the end, I want to put a
final verification for a number that
uses a quite a few of the conversions
just for good measure. In this case,
we'll do 34.97.
Counting it out.
And sure enough, it passes and we're
done.
I hope you enjoyed this kata cast with
commentary. One of the beauties of
practicing a kata like this is that you
can take time to focus on the very small
details, the decisions you make at each
step of the way. By practicing them
repeatedly in an environment such as a
kata, you make the thoughts and ideas
your own. So you won't have to think
quite so much about them when you are
writing production code. When you're
doing that, you need to be a bit more
efficient and not think about every
single step of the way.
Well, happy coding.